In the previous video we already learn subnetting
first case, which is we have 100 PC.
Now in this video, we are going to learn about
subnetting again, but with different case.
In this case we will have 12 PC.
We will doing subnetting calculation for 12
PC.
We are going to calculate which prefix is
the best, Total IP, Subnetmask, Network IP,
Broadcast IP, and Range IP.
Actually this is same with previous video,
just with different case.
Okay let’s just start.
We will start by finding the best prefix we
can use.
Here we have 12 PC.
Let’s try to remember the powers again,
2 to the power of 1 is 2, 2 to the power of
2 is 4, and 2 to the power of 3 is 8
And the next 2 to the power of 4 is 16.
We can stop here, because we just have 12
PC, and here we can see that we already have 16
This is the best choice for 12PC.
Because the next power, 2 to the power of
5 is 32.
This is to much.
And 2 to the power of 3 is not enough.
So the best choice is 2 to the power of 4,
which is 16.
Now let’s calculate the prefix.
To find the prefix, we can just minus 32 by
4, and we get 28.
So the best prefix that we can use for 12
PC is /28.
Now we need to determine which range IP we
will use.
Remember that we must use Private IP, so we
can choose between 10.0.0 or 172.16 or 192.168.
In this case, we are going to use 172.16
Let’s say we will use 172.16.10.x, remember
that the first third numbers will never change.
But the last number will be change.
If we see here, we have 172.16.10.x, this is
included in the Private IP Address seconds range
and the prefix that we will use is
/28, which is the result of our calculation before
Okay I think enough for this video.
So we already calculate the best prefix that
we can use and also we already determine
which IP we will use.
In the next video, we are gong to calculate
the Total IP, Subnetmask, Network IP, Broadcast IP
and Range IP.
But before you watch the next video, I suggest
you to try calculate all of this by your self
After that, you can watch the solution in
the next video.
You can evaluate your calculation
is correct or no.
Okay, thankyou for watching and see you in
the next video!